Hello and welcome to this lesson on routing
to a single book.
Right now we’re able to navigate back and
forth between our home page and our all books
page, but not yet to a specified book, so
lets fix that.
What we want to do is create a new route path
that will pass a parameter to our route handler
indicating where we want to go.
This can be accomplished by first specifiying
a new path with a backslash colon id.
This id is a variable and it can be anything
so long as your consistent but the convention
is to use the keyword id.
And then we declare which component is going
to be associated to the new route.
In order to activate this route, we need to
pass an array to our routerLink.
The first index in our array indicates a route
location, so here we’re saying look for
the route prefixed with book, and the 2nd
element passes in a reference to the book
we want look at.
In this template we’re looping through and
displaying all the books as defined in our
json file.
So this id references a book in that json
object, right here – so depending on which
book we click on we’ll navigate to the URL
of book slash 1, 2, 3 and so on.
Doing just this much is going to populate
the url with the id of the book we’re clicking
on, but isn’t going to display any data
for the individual book.
But for now, lets work through this step in
our application.
First, I’m going to open up our app module
file and add in a new route located book/:id
with a component called BookDetailsComponent.
We get an error here because we haven’t
created it yet, so lets do that now by opening
our book-details folder then inside that open
up the book-details component file.
Here, we’ll add in the minimum needed code
to create a component.
Which includes a module id, a templateURL
and the name of our component.
We’ll make sure to add our new component
to our app module file as well.
Now, lets edit our books-list html file.
We’re going to edit this a tag to turn our
href into a routerLink and then bind it to
an array of 2 elements.
Make sure your using quotation marks around
both the array itself and the first element
which contains a route location.
With the 2nd element containing a reference
to the book’s id.
We’ll save that and check out our app.
So now when we navigate and click on the name
of a book, we’re sent to a URL containing
the ID of the book we clicked on.
And this template we’re displaying is what’s
been provided to you as hardcoded html and
looks like this.
If you don’t see an image show up, make
sure to edit this path right here to match
our folder structure.
In the next video we’ll refactor our HTML
file and add to our bookDetails component
to display our data dynamically.